每日一词12.01 

echo v. 回响， 回荡 ；发出回声；产生回响；充满回声(Syn:reverberate) n. 回声; 共鸣, 附和, 重复 

1. 【2016. 2浙江高考续写样题】As the loud alarm continued to echo in his ears, Arthur experienced a surge of 
panic rushing within him一股恐慌在他体内涌起. (of a sound) 
2. 【2019. 12山东海南省适应性考试】Disorderly footsteps echoed around the house while we hurried through 
each room, desperately searching for any sign of of our beloved furry friend. (of a sound) 
3. 【2019. 12山东海南省适应性考试】 The abrupt vanishing of Spotty created a stir in our home. Every corner 
echoed with our worried calls, yet Spotty was still nowhere to be found. (of a place) 
4. 【2018.6浙江高考】My horse, startled by the abrupt arrival of the rabbit, leapt ahead energetically. The echo of 
hooves (蹄) on the dirt road filled the serene countryside. (我的马被突然出现的兔子吓了一跳，精力充沛地跳了
起来。马蹄在泥土路上的回声回荡在宁静的乡村中。) 
5. 【2020. 1浙江高考】We engaged in a lighthearted playtime in the backyard, with our laughter echoing in the 
fresh air. 
6. The speech found an echo in the hearts of many of the audience. 


 

 

 


每日一词12.02 

well v. 涌出；冒出；流出；溢出 

1. Gloom enveloped her mind while tears welled in her eyes. 
2. As he stood silently at the summit, gazing at the breathtaking panorama that lay before him, a profound sense of 
awe and gratitude welled up within him. (当他静静地站在山顶，凝视着眼前那令人屏息的全景时，一种深深
的敬畏和感激之情在他心中涌现。) 
3. 【 2021.1八省联考(教育部命题)】 The scent drifting from/ wafting from the bag heightened her desire, and 
when she took a bite of the first sandwich, tears welled up in her eyes. (袋子里散发出的香气勾起了她的食欲，当
她咬下第一口三明治时，她感动得泪水充满了眼眶。) 
4. 【 2020.1浙江高考】My heart welled with a mix of feelings - the soothing familiarity of Puppy’s presence and 
the lively excitement emanating（从...散发或发出） from Poppy. (我感到心头涌动着复杂的情感 ：一方面是 
Puppy 带给我的那份温馨熟悉之感 ，另一方面则是波比身上散发出的那种欢快与兴奋。) 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


每日一词12.03 

swell v.膨胀；肿胀to become bigger or rounder;（使）凸出，鼓出to curve out or make sth curve out;（使）增
加，增大，扩大to increase or make sth increase in number or size;变得更响亮,增强;充满（激情）to become louder 
n.海浪的涌动；涌浪 

1. His chest swelled with pride as he received the award in front of the whole school. 
2. Hope swelled within her / inside her as she saw the first signs of recovery. 
3. The sound of cheering swelled through the hall as the hero made his entrance. (当英雄登场时，欢呼声响彻大
厅。) 
4. Clouds began to swell in the sky, forming the prelude前奏 to a summer storm. 
5. 【2024新课标I、II卷】As I rushed to catch the bus, a swell of gratitude 胸中涌起一阵感激之情filled my chest 
for Gunter’s unwavering help. 


 


每日一词12.04 

envelop v. 包住，盖住， 围绕 

1. 【2020.1浙江高考】 When the boy came back to his family house from college for the break, 
a comforting sense of warmth enveloped him. (当这个男孩假期从大学回到家时 ，一种舒适的
温暖感包裹着他。) 
2. 【2020 年山东高考】The atmosphere was enveloped by the sound of laughter and 
conversation as pleased customers strolled away bags brimming with Bernard’s popcorn. (气氛中
弥漫着笑声和交流声，满意的顾客们手提着盈满 Emily 手工爆米花的袋子，愉快地散步离
去。) 
3. Emma rested in bed, enveloped by the suffocating（令人窒息的）darkness that appeared to 
intensify the creaks and whispers of the old house. (Emma 躺在床上，周围是加深了老屋嘎吱与
私语声的压抑黑暗 ，仿佛一切都被黑夜无形的手紧紧握住。) 
4. 【2021.6浙江高考】 A sense of tightness enveloped my chest, as if the emotional burden 
sought to tighten the space surrounding my heart. (一股紧绷感笼罩我的胸口，仿佛那一刹那的
情感重负正试图挤压我心脏周围的空间。) 
5. The calmness of the night enveloped the wilderness, crafting a peaceful haven beneath the 
celestial (天空的）dome（穹顶） .(夜的平静将荒野拥入怀中，于星辰下营造了一个宁谧的
避世之地。) 
6. A wave of tranquility enveloped her as she gazed upon the serene landscape,calming her 
restless thoughts. (她凝视着宁静的风景时，一股宁静的氛围将她环绕，平息了她不安的思
绪。) 


 


每日一词12.05 

unfold v. 展开, 打开, 摊开〔卷着的东西〕;〔故事等〕 展现﹐呈现﹔ (使)展示;〔一系列
的事件〕发生 

1. 【2023. 1浙江高考】As I journeyed further into the farm, the well-known path bordered by 
blackberries unfolded ahead, guiding me towards my car.（当我继续深入农场，一条两侧长满
黑莓的熟悉小径逐渐展现在我眼前，它引领我走向停放的车。） 
2. 【2020.1浙江高考】As the days unfolded, she became accustomed to her name, joyfully 
wagging her tail each time we called out to her. 随着日子一天天过去 
3. 【2020.7浙江高考】 Following the dangerous scenario, the rescue unfolded through a series 
of crucial steps. 逐渐展开 
4. He carefully unfolded the ancient map, his fingers trembling with anticipation. 展开那张古
老的地图 
5. As the truth unfolded, a mix of anger and sadness welled up inside her. 随着真相逐渐揭露 
6. 【2025八省联考】As the documentary unfolded on the screen, I was amazed to see the bikers’ 
true mission to help abandoned dogs, which was far different from my first impression of them. 
（纪录片在屏幕上播放时，我惊讶地发现这些摩托车手的真正使命竟是救助被遗弃的狗，这
完全颠覆了我对他们的最初印象。） 
7. 【2023新课标 I + II 卷】The journey of writing that essay was not just a task; it was the 
beginning of a personal transformation that would unfold into a lifelong passion for storytelling. 
（写这篇文章的过程不仅仅是一个任务，它是个人转变的开始，将展开成我一生对讲故事的
热情。） 


 

 


每日一词12.08 

linger v. linger (on)继续存留，缓慢消失to continue to exist for longer than expected; 流连，
逗留，徘徊[ usually+ adv./prep.]；花很长时间做（某事），磨蹭to stay somewhere for longer 
because you do not want to leave; 持续看（或思考）to continue to look at sb/sth or think 
about sth for longer than usual 

1. A sense of longing lingered in his heart, even years after they had parted ways.（即使在他们
分道扬镳多年后，他心中仍然挥之不去的是那份渴望。） 
2. The scent of blooming flowers lingered in the air, creating a serene and inviting atmosphere.
（盛开的花朵的香味在空气中徘徊，营造出一种宁静而温馨的氛围。） 
3. 【2017. 6浙江高考】The recollection of the wolf’s relentless chase and the heart-pounding 
seconds of that critical afternoon lingered in Mac’s mind.（那天下午，狼的无情追击和那些令
人心慌的瞬间，至今在 Mac 的心头挥之不去。） 
4. She lingered at the door, hesitant to leave the room where so many memories were made.（她
在门口徘徊，不愿离开这个充满回忆的房间。） 
5. 【2017.6浙江高考】 Even after being rescued, Mac couldn’t shake off the lingering fear, 
feeling a profound heaviness in his chest from the recent brush with death.（即便获救之后，Mac 
依然难以摆脱内心深处的恐惧。他的胸口沉甸甸的，那是近距离与死神擦肩而过留下的深刻
印记。） 
6. He lingered over the old photograph, lost in thoughts of days long past.（他久久地凝视着那
张旧照片，沉浸在对往昔日子的回忆中。） 
7. She lingered in the bookstore for hours, browsing through every shelf with no particular 
purpose. （她在书店里磨蹭了好几个小时，无目的地浏览着每一个书架。） 


 

 


每日一词12.09 

cup v. 使（手）窝成杯状，使（双手）成圆状托起 

1. He gently cupped the tiny bird in his hands, protecting it from the cold. 
2. He cupped her face tenderly, wiping away her tears with his thumbs.（他轻轻捧起她的脸，
拇指温柔地拭去她的眼泪。 ） 
3. She cupped the fragile flower in her hands, marveling at its delicate beauty.（她用双手轻轻
托起那朵脆弱的花朵，惊叹于它的精致美丽。） 
4. He cupped water from the mountain stream, feeling its icy chill.（他用手捧起山间溪流的水，
感受着它那冰冷的寒意。 
5. She cupped her hands around her mouth to amplify her voice. 
6. 【2023.1浙江高考读后续写-原句】 With the bird in my cupped hand, I looked around to 
see how she had gotten in. （我轻轻地将小鸟托在掌心，四处张望，试图发现它是如何飞进
来 


 

 


每日一词12.10 

edge v.(使)徐徐移动to move or to move sth slowly and carefully in a particular direction；给
......加边 n.边沿；优势 

1. She edged closer to the mysterious painting, curiosity driving her movements. （出于好奇，
她慢慢靠近那幅神秘的画。） [edge + adv./prep.] 
2. He edged away from the crowd, seeking a moment of solitude.（他从人群中慢慢挪开，寻求
一刻的独处。） 
3. Her heart edged towards hope as she heard the positive news.（当她听到好消息时，她的心
渐渐充满了希望。） 
4. The sun edged over the horizon, bringing the first light of dawn to the sleepy town. （太阳缓
缓升起，为沉睡的小镇带来了黎明的第一缕光芒。） 
5. Emily edged her chair forward, craning her neck to catch every word the speaker said.（艾米莉
把椅子往前挪了挪，伸长脖子想听清演讲者说的每一个字。） 
6. She spent the afternoon edging the garden beds with stones to create a neat and decorative 
border. （她用整个下午的时间，在花园的花坛周围摆放石头，既为花坛勾勒出了整齐的边
界，又增添了装饰的美感。） 
7. 【2025八省联考】My heart was on edge as I walked past the group of bikers, but once I 
entered the theater, I began to feel more at ease. 紧张不安；激动；烦躁 
8. The company needs to improve its competitive edge. 优势 
9. The game had the crowd on the edge of their seats.这场比赛使观众兴奋不已。 


 


每日一词12.11 

escape （从不愉快或危险处境中）逃脱，摆脱，逃避; 避开，避免（不愉快或危险的事物）; 
被忘掉, 被忽视,未被注意to be forgotten or not noticed; (不自觉地）由…发出 

1. The rabbit managed to escape from the fox by darting into the thick underbrush. 突然跑进浓
密的灌木丛中 
2. She could not escape the feeling of sadness that washed over her whenever she looked at old 
photos. 
3. *The melody seemed to escape into the night, carrying with it the sorrows of the day. （旋律
似乎逃入夜晚，带走了一天的忧伤。） 
4. It might have escaped your notice , but I’m very busy at the moment.也许你没注意到，可我此
刻忙得不可开交。 
5. A chuckle escaped him when he saw the playful puppy tripping over its own feet. （当看到那
只顽 皮的小狗绊到自己的脚时，他不由自主地笑了出来。） 
6. I was lucky to escape with minor injuries. 我只受了一点轻伤逃出来真是万幸。 


 

 


每日一词12.12 

duck v. 低下头，弯下身（以免被打中或看见）; 躲闪,躲避; 迅速行进，飞快行走（以免
被看见）; 逃避，回避，推脱，推诿（职责或责任） 

1. He ducked under the low hanging branch to avoid getting scratched. （他低头躲过低垂的树枝，
以免被刮伤。） 
2. The wind picked up suddenly, causing pedestrians to duck as debris flew towards them. （风
突然加大，行人不得不低头躲避飞向他们的碎片。 
3. 【2025八省联考】As I walked past the bikers, I instinctively ducked my head, trying to 
remain unnoticed and avoid drawing attention. （当我走过那些摩托车手时，我本能地低下了
头，试图不引人注目，避免引起注意。） 
4. In an attempt to duck his responsibilities, he became increasingly isolated from his family.试图
逃避责任，他变得与家人越来越疏远。 
5. She tried to duck the question about her future plans, feeling too uncertain to share.（她试图回
避关于她未来计划的问题，因为感到太不确定而不愿分享。） 


 

 


